©2024 GMT Games, LLC
CARD MANIFEST &
DEEP SPACE PLANET ATTRIBUTES
by Jim Krohn
2 Space Empires: All Good Things - Card Manifest & Deep Space Planet Attributes
© 2024 GMT Games, LLC
Design Note: Cards are not listed in sequential number but rather
grouped by type. Also, the card numbers vary due to being published in various expansions.
Empire Advantage Card List
31. Fearless Race: The ethos of this race places a high value
on proving their courage. All of their combat-capable ships and
Shipyards (excluding Boarding Ships and Ground Units) fire as
A-Class ships in the first round of combat (only). Their Missiles
hit as C-Class in the first round. After the first round everything
reverts to its normal Class. However, none of their ships are able
to retreat from combat until after Round 3 (this may be modified
by e.g. Crew Cards). Their ships would still fire as E-Class (or
F-Class for Boarding Ships) when in Asteroids or Nebulae (5.8).
REVEAL: When first entering any combat, including Aliens.
32. Warrior Race: +1 to Attack Strength for all non-Boarding
Ship units when they are the attacker in a battle. –1 to the Attack
Strength for all non-Boarding Ship units when they are the
defender in a battle. No advantage is given when bombarding
a planet or to ground troops.
REVEAL: When first entering any combat, including Aliens.
33. Celestial Knights: Once per space battle (not ground
combat or Colony bombardment), after the first round, at the
start of a round, this race may declare a “charge”. All of their
units (including Boarding Ships and Missile Boats but not any
kind of Bases, DSN, Ion Cannons and Shipyards) get two attacks
(or fire two missiles) in that round only. However, in all
following rounds all enemy units get +1 to their Attack Strength
(this does not apply to fire against Missiles, but does apply
against any kind of Bases, DSN, and Shipyards). In addition,
the charging ships may not retreat the round after the charge.
REVEAL: When a “charge” is declared for the first time.
34. Giant Race: The Hull Size of all units (except Ground
Units and Missiles) of this race is increased by one. This impacts
everything that has to do with Hull Size – SYs needed to construct
(including for Miners, Colony Ships, and MS Pipelines), damage
to destroy, technology that can be carried, maintenance, boarding
parties, etc. The cost to build the ships remains the same.
Captured ships of this race retain their Hull Size. Giant Race may
not research Fighters and may not get them by any other means
(capturing technology, etc.). Decoys continue to have a Hull
Size of zero and do not need a SY to build. Missiles still only
take 1 hit to destroy
REVEAL: When first entering any combat, including Aliens.
35. Industrious Race: When this race researches Terraforming
1, they may colonize Asteroids exactly as if they were a Barren
Planet. The Asteroids still retain their normal terrain effects.
Titans may not destroy an Asteroid like it would a planet and
may not attack Asteroid Colonies at all. Other players may not
attack an Asteroid Colony with Ground Units. If playing with
the Short Game Victory Condition (Colony Points; CSB 1.1.7),
Asteroid Colonies in Deep Space do not count as a Colony Point.
If colonizing an Asteroid, the player does NOT get an Alien
Technology Card (11.0).
REVEAL: When an asteroid is colonized for the first time.
36. Ancient Race: At the start of the game (before it begins),
this player reveals that they are the Ancient Race, then explores
all hexes adjacent to their Homeworld. They then explore six of
the hexes that are adjacent to those hexes (these will be two hexes
from their Homeworld). This means that it is possible for some
of the hexes that are two spaces away from their Homeworld
to not be explored (depending on the setup). They immediately
collect up to 3 Minerals that were revealed and place those
Minerals on their Homeworld. Next, this player places up to 3
Colony Ships from their supply (Colony Ship side up) on any
non-barren planets that are revealed in this way (3 Colony Ships
still start at the Homeworld). They will become Colony 1s at the
end of the first Economic Phase. This represents colonists that
have made contact with this player’s race again after spending
hundreds of years in cryogenic sleep while in transit to these
planets. Now that the “modern” faster than light drive has been
perfected, the Colonies will grow and become part of the Empire.
REVEAL: At the start of the game.
37. Space Pilgrims: This race has a greater understanding of
space and is at home in it. They suffer no movement penalties
in Nebulae or Asteroids. Their ships never get sucked into Black
Holes and they are never Lost in Space. They may even use
the Black Hole Slingshot optional rule automatically, without
having to roll for destruction. They still are destroyed by Danger!
markers and other terrain still affects them.
REVEAL: When entering a Black Hole or Lost in Space marker
or if they ignore the movement penalty of an Asteroid or Nebula.
In order to keep their advantage secret, they may choose to roll
when entering a Black Hole hex.
38. Hive Mind: This race learns and adapts in each battle.
Starting in round 2 of a battle, all of this race’s units get +1 to
their Defense Strength. Starting in round 4, all units also get
+1 to their Attack Strength. Starting in round 6, all units get +1
to their Hull Size. These same modifiers also apply to ground
combat, but the ground combat is considered to have started
with round 1 even if a space battle preceded it. If the attacker
does not get to fire in the first round of ground combat (because
of not having Drop Ships), that still counts as the first round
of combat. They do not get these benefits while bombarding
planets. Missiles receive the attack and defense strength benefits,
but not the hull size benefit.
REVEAL: When first entering any combat, including Aliens.
Empire Advantage Cards
Space Empires: All Good Things - Card Manifest & Deep Space Planet Attributes 3
© 2024 GMT Games, LLC
39. Nano-technology: This race’s units may instantly upgrade
to the newest technology for free regardless of location. If they
do so they must not move that turn.
REVEAL: At the end of the game.
40. Quick Learners: These start with Military Academy level
1 and roll 2 dice (taking the best result) when checking to see
if a ship increases in Experience. Other Empires may NEVER
gain Military Academy technology from this race.
REVEAL: When rolling to see if a ship gains Experience.
41. Gifted Scientists: This highly technological race gets
a 33% discount (rounded up and applied before any other
discounts) when researching any technology. However, every
unit they build (Colony Ship, Decoy, Scout, Pipeline, etc.) costs
1 CP more.
REVEAL: At the end of the game.
42. Master Engineers: This race uses a highly advanced, but
unstable form of faster-than-light drive. This empire starts the
game with Move 2 and Fast 1 technologies. In addition, each
full-strength colony can produce and retrofit ships as if it had 1
SY present. This may be combined with actual SY that are built.
EXAMPLE: A Full Strength Colony without an SY and with SY
Tech 3 could produce a BC.
REVEAL: At the end of the game.
43. Insectoids: This race reproduces and builds very
rapidly. The Hull Size of all units (except Ground Units and
Missiles) of this race is decreased by one. Except as noted,
this impacts everything that has to do with Hull Size – SYs
needed to construct (including for Miners, Colony Ships, and
MS pipelines), damage to destroy, tech that can be carried,
maintenance, boarding parties, etc. The cost to build the ships
remains the same. A ship such as a DD, which has a Hull Size
of 0, would pay no maintenance, not be allowed to carry any
attack or defense tech, and could upgrade technology at a SY for
no CP cost. A ship with a Hull Size of 0 would still be destroyed
by 1 hit and would be considered to have a Hull Size of 1 for
the purpose of any Experience roll. Ships with a Hull Size of
0 are considered to have a Hull Size of 1/2 for the purpose of
using Shipyard capacity. For example: 1 Shipyard at Shipyard
Tech 2 could build 3 DDs in an Economic Phase. Insectoids
may not research Military Academies or Fighters and may not
get them by any means (capturing technology, etc.). Captured
ships of this race retain their Hull Size. Insectoid Starbases may
still mount Attack 4.
REVEAL: When first entering any combat, including Aliens.
44. Immortals: This race reproduces very slowly, but never dies
of old age. They have developed extra shielding and a system of
reserve power in an attempt to preserve the lives of their people.
One time in each round of combat, this race may choose to ignore
one point of damage. This means that it is impossible for one
of their ships to be destroyed in a one-on-one battle (unless the
other ship is a Titan or Missile Boat or uses Resource Cards). An
Alternate Empire player cannot ignore a hit against one of their
Missiles. However, because a large seed population is needed
for their Colonies, each Colony Ship costs 2 CP more. They
may not choose to ignore a boarding hit. Captured ships retain
this ability. However, only a hit on the captured ship(s) can be
ignored. Immortals may not research Boarding and may not get
it by any means (capturing technology, etc.). If playing with any
rule that normally would allow a player to carry CP over into the
start of the game (like the Technology Head Start Scenario
Modifier), the Immortals may not and will lose any CP not spent
on research. Immortals cannot use their special ability against
Bombardment Damage or during Ground Combat.
REVEAL: When they first choose to ignore 1 hit in combat.
45. Expert Tacticians: This race of superior tacticians gets
the +1 Attack Fleet Size Bonus as soon as they have one more
combat-capable ship in a battle than their opponent (they don’t
need to have a 2:1 advantage). In addition, opponents do not
get the Fleet Size Bonus against them unless they outnumber
them by 3:1. If the opposing fleet has Agent Smith or has an
Admiral Of The Navy (or any combination thereof), everything
cancels each other out and the Fleet Size Bonus is given at 2:1.
REVEAL: When they first choose to use their improved Fleet
Size Bonuses in combat.
46. Horsemen of the Plains: This race developed from a
culture that valued the ability to strike quickly and evade. If
a ship of this race could otherwise retreat, it may do so at the
end of a round of combat, even if it fired during that round. It
does not need to wait for its turn to fire to retreat. They could
retreat as early as the end of Round 1, before Round 2 begins. In
addition, all of this player’s ships always get +2 to their Attack
Strength when firing on a planet.
REVEAL: When they first use one of their abilities.
47. And We Still Carry Swords: This race loves physical
combat. This race starts with Ground Combat 2. All of their
boarding attacks get +1 to their Attack Strength and all boarding
attacks against them get -1 to their Attack Strength. In addition,
all of their Ground Units, including Militia, get +1 to their Attack
and Defense Strength (whether attacking or defending). Other
Empires may NEVER gain Ground Combat tech from this race.
REVEAL: When engaging in boarding attack or ground
invasion for the first time.
Empire Advantage Cards
4 Space Empires: All Good Things - Card Manifest & Deep Space Planet Attributes
© 2024 GMT Games, LLC
48. Amazing Diplomats: Non-Player Aliens do not attack this
race and this race may both move through their System and
stack with them. NPAs with the Aggressive trait do not attack
them. While the alien ships will not leave the System, they will
defend it against attacks from other players. This player may
colonize alien planets as if the aliens were not there (and gain
an Alien Technology card). This represents them developing a
relationship, trade, and an outpost on that planet. A Colony on
an alien planet is treated like a player’s Colony in every respect.
If the alien ships are subsequently destroyed by another player,
the Colony still continues until destroyed normally.
REVEAL: When entering a NPA hex for the first time or if
Aggressive NPA would attack them.
49. Traders: Gets one extra CP for each colony connected by
an MS Pipeline.
REVEAL: At the end of the game.
50. Cloaking Geniuses: After researching Cloaking 1, all of
their Scouts and Destroyers also get the benefit of Cloaking.
After researching Cloaking level 2, all of their Cruisers also
get the benefit of Cloaking. If not nullified by scanners the SCs,
DDs & CAs do get the +1 to their Attack Strength during the
first firing round. If nullified by Scanners, these ships fire where
they normally would according to their Weapon Class rating
(a CA would fire as C-Class). This is not an instant upgrade.
Any ships already produced would have to be refitted. A note
will need to be made on existing Groups in the margin of the
Ship Technology Sheet. Captured ships of this race retain their
Cloaking ability (and can be upgraded).
REVEAL: When a cloaked SC/DD/CA is encountered in
combat or moves through an enemy ship.
51. Star Wolves: Each of this race’s SCs, DDs, and Fighters
get +1 to their Attack Strength when firing on a unit with a Hull
Size of 2 or greater. In addition, their DDs cost 1 less (8 CP for
Base Empires, or 9 CP for Alternate Empires).
REVEAL: When they first use their ability.
52. Power to the People: Mines, Colony Ships, Miners, and
MS Pipelines are automatically and instantly upgraded to the
player’s current Movement technology (they will be able to
move more than 1 space per turn).
REVEAL: When a Miner, CO, MS Pipeline, or revealed Mine
moves faster than normal for the first time.
53. House of Speed: This race starts with Movement 7 tech,
but their ships sacrifice defensive abilities. Opponents (including
NPAs, Doomsday Machines, Space Amoebas, and Space Pirates)
get a +2 to their Attack Strength (even when boarding) when
firing at ships of this race (including Fighters, but not any type
of Bases, SYs, DSN, Colonies, Space Stations or Ground Units).
Also, their Movement technology gives off such a strong energy
signature that they may never research Cloaking or get it by any
other means (capturing technology, etc.). They may use captured
Raiders but may not increase the speed of the captured Raider.
Captured ships of this race retain both their speed advantage and
their defensive liability. However, their movement technology
is so complex that other Empires may NEVER gain Movement
technology from this race (either by scrapping boarded ships
or capturing planets).
REVEAL: The first time a ship moves more than 1 hex in a
turn or the first time its ships are in combat.
54. Powerful Psychics: This race starts with Exploration
1 technology. In addition, their sensors are more advanced.
This player may reveal all face down Groups that are adjacent
to one of their ships with Exploration technology (e.g. CAs,
Flagship, Unique ships). These counters are left face up
(as if they had been encountered in combat). However, the
technology on the revealed ships is not revealed by this power.
Since their Exploration technology is partially based on their
psychic powers, other Empires may NEVER gain Exploration
technology from this race (either by scrapping boarded ships
or capturing planets).
REVEAL: The first time a stack is inspected.
55. Shape Shifters: This Empire may place Decoys in any
hex with a friendly combat ship in addition to any hex with a
Colony. Each Economic Phase they get two free Decoy units.
If they run out of Decoys, they may use any spare counter as a
Decoy if they mark it as such on their Ship Tech sheet.
EXAMPLE: CA #2 can be marked as a Decoy on the Ship Tech
Sheet and used as a Decoy.
In combat, they do not have to reveal any technology possessed
unless it actually would change the result of a combat roll, in
which case they announce it after the roll.
EXAMPLE: A CA Group has Attack 2 Tech. This is not revealed.
After rolling an Attack, one of the dice misses by one. The player
then must reveal that he has Attack 2 and it scores a hit.
Once per game, they may retreat their ships as if they had just
played Resource Card #107 Retreat While Engaged.
REVEAL: When a non-Decoy effect of this card is used.
58. On the Move: Shipyards and all types of Bases have
Move 1 and may attack and explore. They may not retreat from
combat, and they can never be upgraded to a higher Movement
technology. They may move an extra hex if using MS Pipelines
or Black Hole Slingshot. Shipyards may only build ships during
the Economic Phase if they are in the same hex with a friendly
Colony that produced CP during this Economic Phase. However,
they may be used to upgrade ships normally no matter where
they are on the map. Both the SY and group being upgraded
Empire Advantage Cards
Space Empires: All Good Things - Card Manifest & Deep Space Planet Attributes 5
© 2024 GMT Games, LLC
may not move when performing the retrofit. All other rules for
Shipyards and Bases are the same.
REVEAL: The first time a revealed Shipyard/Base moves, the
first time a Shipyard or a (non advanced) Base is revealed while
not at a Colony, or the first time a Shipyard/Base is in battle.
59. Longbowmen: This race uses long range torpedoes. The
Weapon Class of their SC, DD, CA, BC, Flagship, Missiles, and
nullified Raiders is increased by one letter (C-Class becomes
B-Class, B-Class becomes A-Class, etc.). A-Class ships remain
A-Class and get no benefit. This benefit is only if the battle is in
open space, Space Stations, planets, Minerals, or Space Wrecks.
DDs with Long Lance Torpedoes and Fighters stay at B-Class
and get no benefit.
REVEAL: When first entering combat, including Aliens, with
one of the affected ships.
187. War Sun: This race has spent generations refitting an
ancient warship, and it is nearly operational. Once during
the game, they gain a free Titan at their Homeworld. It will
have the player’s current tech and requires no Shipyard to
place. It pays no maintenance as long as it is at a friendly
Colony during the Econ Phase. This ship may not enter
Deep Space until Ship Size 6 has been researched.
Additionally, the War Sun has revealed to this race the
ability to pass safely through Super Nova hexes (though
they cannot end their movement in one). Alternate Empires
(24.0) are given one Titan counter. This is the only time
an Alternate Empire can have a Titan; they may still not
research or build other Titans and they may not rebuild
this one if destroyed.
REVEAL: When any of their Titan counters are revealed.
188. Salvage Experts: When this race wins a space battle,
they may salvage one friendly destroyed combat ship
from the battle (not Shipyards, Bases, Mines, Starbases,
Defense Satellite Networks, or Flagships). The salvaged
ship is placed face down in the hex at its previous Ship
Experience level. Ships that were carrying other units or
Logistic Points when they were destroyed do not regain
them when the ship is salvaged. If none of their ships are
destroyed no ship is gained, but if the enemy lost at least
one combat ship, this empire gains 3 CP.
REVEAL: When first entering combat, including Aliens.
189. Berserker Genome: At the end of every combat
round of space combat in which this race loses a unit, they
may make a special attack for each unit destroyed (units
hit by boarding attacks do not count as destroyed for this
purpose). These bonus attacks hit on a roll of 1+the Hull
Size of the destroyed unit, regardless of the target’s defense
and does one damage (example: a destroyed BC gets a final
attack hitting on 1-3).
REVEAL: When first used.
190. Robot Race: Due to the low maintenance of this
race, all maintenance is halved; add up all maintenance
costs (including reductions from alien technology cards
and experience), divide the total in half and round down.
REVEAL: At the end of the game.
191. Masters of the Gates: All CAs have Warp Gates
without requiring any research and at no extra cost. Rules
as per UN Ship Table #3.
REVEAL: The first time a Warp Gate is used or a CA is
in combat.
REPLICATOR EMPIRE ADVANTAGE CARDS
60. Fast Replicators: Replicators start with Move 2 tech.
Future levels of Movement technology only cost 15 CP.
REVEAL: At the end of the game.
61. Green Replicators: Replicator Colonies do not begin to
deplete until Econ Phase 13.
REVEAL: At the start of Economic Phase 10.
62. Improved Gunnery: The Replicator Flagship and all Type
XIII and Type XV ships are equipped with Second Salvo. When
they start a turn with 4 RP, all of their ships have their Tactics
level increased by 1 and type V ships gain +1 Attack.
REVEAL: When entering combat, including Aliens, with a Type
V, XIII, XV or the Flagship, or when a ship reveals a higher
Tactics level for any reason.
63. Warp Gates: Replicator Explore Ships and the Flagship
are equipped with Warp Gates. Explore ships still have a Hull
Size of 2, but only take one hull to produce (and only count as
one hull if converted to a different ship).
REVEAL: The first time a Warp Gate is used, or a ship equipped
with one is in combat.
64. Advanced Research: Replicators begin the game with one
extra RP. Buying RP costs only 25.
REVEAL: At the end of the game.
65. Replicator Capitol: The Replicator Homeworld
may produce an additional Hull every odd Economic Phase
(in addition to any other increases e.g. from spending CP).
The Replicators also start with 10 extra CP.
REVEAL: At the end of the game.
Empire Advantage Cards
6 Space Empires: All Good Things - Card Manifest & Deep Space Planet Attributes
© 2024 GMT Games, LLC
Alien Technology Card List
1. Soylent Purple: SC and DD pay 1/2 maintenance (round
down the total).
REVEAL: At the end of the game.
2. Anti-Matter Warhead: DDs get +1 to their Attack Strength.
REVEAL: when a DD is present in combat.
3. Interlinked Targeting Computer: Unlimited attack
technology on Destroyers.
REVEAL: when a DD is present in combat. Existing DDs
instantly get the ability to have Attack technology greater
than their Hull Size because of this card, but they still must be
retrofitted with that technology normally (Attack 2 or Attack 3).
4. Polytitanium Alloy: DDs cost 2 less.
REVEAL: At the end of the game.
5. Long Lance Torpedo: All of this player’s DDs fire as
B-Class instead of D-Class (Alternate Empire DDs fire as
B-Class instead of C-Class). This doesn’t apply in terrain where
they would fire as E-Class (5.8).
REVEAL: when a DD is present in combat.
6. Central Computer: CA and BC pay 1/2 maintenance
(round down the total).
REVEAL: At the end of the game.
7. Resupply Depot: BB and DN pay 1/2 maintenance (round
down the total).
REVEAL: At the end of the game.
8. Holodeck: CV and F pay 1/2 maintenance (round down
the total).
REVEAL: At the end of the game.
9. Cold Fusion Drive: Rs and SWs pay 1/2 maintenance
(round down the total).
REVEAL: At the end of the game.
10. Emissive Armor: CAs take 1 extra hit to kill. However,
their Hull Size does not increase because of this card: it is still
considered 2 (barring other card effects). This does not help
them against boarding attacks.
REVEAL: when a CA is present in combat.
11. Electronic Warfare Module: CAs get +1 to their
Attack Strength.
REVEAL: when a CA is present in combat.
12. Microwarp Drive: BCs get +1 to their Attack Strength.
REVEAL: when a BC is present in combat.
13. Combat Sensors: BBs get +1 to their Attack Strength.
REVEAL: when a BB is present in combat.
14. Afterburners: After researching Fighters, all of your
Fighters get +1 on their Attack when firing on ships with a Hull
Size of 1 (or less, if playing with the Insectoids).
REVEAL: when a Fighter is present in combat.
15. Photon Bomb: After researching Fighters, all of your
Fighters get +1 on their Attack when firing on ships with a Hull
Size greater than 1.
REVEAL: when a Fighter is present in combat.
16. Stim Packs: All Ground Units get +1 to their
Attack Strength.
REVEAL: in ground combat.
17. Improved Crew’s Quarters: CAs cost 3 less.
REVEAL: At the end of the game.
18. Phased Warp Coil: BCs cost 3 less.
REVEAL: At the end of the game.
19. Advanced Ordnance Storage System: BBs cost 4 less.
REVEAL: At the end of the game.
20. The Captain’s Chair: DNs cost 4 less.
REVEAL: At the end of the game.
21. Efficient Factories: Non-Barren, Non-Homeworld
Colonies that will produce 5 CP this Economic Phase produce 6
CP instead. The max gain is 8 CP on normal maps. In situations
where one of these fully grown colonies would produce
something other than 5 CP, the colony produces 1 extra CP
when fully grown.
REVEAL: At the end of the game.
Alien Technology Cards
Space Empires: All Good Things - Card Manifest & Deep Space Planet Attributes 7
© 2024 GMT Games, LLC
29. Mobile Analysis Bay: You can gain technology from
captured ships in any Economic Phase after they are captured
without having to scrap them. They do not have to be at a
Shipyard. May only be used one time on each captured ship.
REVEAL: At the end of the game.
30. Adaptive Cloaking Device: If your enemy does not have
Scanners equal to or greater than your Cloaking, your Raiders
fire with a +2 to their Attack Strength (instead of the usual +1) in
the 1st Round. If they do have Scanners equal to your Cloaking
then your Cloak is nullified, but in the 1st Round they fire as
A-Class, 2nd Round as B-Class, 3rd Round as C-Class, 4th &
later as D-Class. This card only impacts Raiders, even if you
also have the Cloaking Geniuses Empire Advantage.
REVEAL: when a Raider is present in combat.
56. On Board Workshop: Each CV, BV, and Titan may be
used to build one Fighter during the Economic Phase as long
as there is room to store the Fighter built. This includes Fighter
technology that has just been researched. The Fighter costs the
same as if it was produced at a Shipyard. No other ships that
carry Fighters (like Unique ships) can do this except Alternate
Empire BBs and DNs. During a Movement Turn, one Fighter
may be refitted and the ship carrying it may move as long as the
FTR accompanies it for the entire movement phase.
REVEAL: when a CV/BV/Titan is present in combat.
57. Superhighway: Each ship that spends its entire move on
an MS Pipeline chain may move two extra hexes instead of one.
The flavor text on the card comes from an old German slogan
against speed limits on the autobahn—roughly, “Free roads for
free citizens”.
REVEAL: the first time it is used.
22. Omega Crystals: All the player’s CAs, BCs, BBs, DNs,
and Titans are equipped with the Omega Crystal. If a ship with
the Omega Crystal is present in battle the player may activate
it after a Group has fired (enemy or friendly). That Group must
reroll ALL of its dice. The first set of results from that Group is
undone and replaced by the new rolls. The new results must be
accepted, even if worse for the Omega Crystal player. No matter
how many ships with the Omega Crystal are present, the player
may only ever do this once during the entire battle. If the ships
retreat and then subsequently engage in battle, they may again
use the Omega Crystal.
REVEAL: when first used.
23. Cryogenic Stasis Pods: Boarding Ships & Transports
pay 1/2 maintenance.
REVEAL: At the end of the game.
24. Minesweep Jammer: Minesweepers used against you are
treated as having one level less of Minesweeping technology.
So Minesweepers with only level 1 would not sweep any Mines
at all.
REVEAL: at the start of combat.
25. Air Support: Transports function in ground combat as
B6-2-x2 units. (They must survive the space combat to be used
this way.) Only the modifiers for Ground Units are applied to
Transports being used as Air Support. Any damage that they took
during the space battle is considered repaired before the start of
the ground combat. They may be fired at by opposing Ground
Units. They may not be removed to garrison the planet. If no
other Ground Units are available to be removed to garrison the
planet, the planet is not captured.
REVEAL: when first used.
26. Hidden Turret: Minesweepers fire as E3 units.
REVEAL: when a SW is present in combat.
27. Stealth Field Emitter: Your ships go back to their
unrevealed side after combat.
REVEAL: when first used.
28. Advanced Comm Array: If a ship otherwise qualifies
for the Reaction Move ability, they may react into an adjacent,
non-battle hex when an opponent moves into that hex. This stops
the other player’s movement. During combat, the reacting player
is considered the attacker in that battle.
REVEAL: when first used.
180. Self-Sustaining Power Source: Titans pay 1/2
maintenance (round down the total).
REVEAL: At the end of the game.
181. Advanced Shipyards: Shipyards produce an extra
half Hull Point each. (1.5 at level one, 2 at level 2, 2.5 at
level three.)
REVEAL: At the end of the game.
182. Lorelei System: Allows a player to designate their
SC, SCX, DD, and DDX as the target of Mines that were
not swept after technology was revealed in combat (17.1.3).
REVEAL: when first used.
Alien Technology Cards
8 Space Empires: All Good Things - Card Manifest & Deep Space Planet Attributes
© 2024 GMT Games, LLC
183. Ancient Weapons Cache: In the following
Economic Phase, the player gains 2 Cyber Armor (38.7)
at one of their Colonies even if they do not have the
appropriate technology.
REVEAL: when any Cyber Armor is revealed.
184. Quantum Computing: All of this player’s Unique
Ships may now mount a 3rd Unique Technology and they
no longer pay 5 CP to redesign UNs. Immediately add a 3rd
tech to your current UN design (do not change any other
aspect). All UNs currently on the board gain this third tech
(at your current tech level if applicable) at no cost.
REVEAL: when gained.
185. Focused Phasers: Unique Ships get +1 to their
Attack Strength.
REVEAL: When a UN is present in combat.
186. Skipper Missiles: All Missiles (24.4) strike their
targets as C-Class instead of E-Class.
REVEAL: When a MB is present in combat.
281. Bioweapons: All DDs are instantly upgraded to have
Bioweapons. They automatically hit when bombarding a
planet.
REVEAL: When first used.
Unique Ship Cards (282-283) – These cards require the
Unique Ship counters to play. If already playing with
Unique Ships, or if a Unique Ship Card is already in use
by this empire when a Unique Ship Card is drawn, the new
card may be discarded to draw another. There are no Ship
Size requirements for Unique Ship designs given by cards.
282. Aegis Frigate: You have the plans to build Aegis
Frigates (use Unique Ship counters). They are E1-3 x2 and
are equipped with Shield Projectors (regardless of whether
they have been researched). They cost 11 CP.
REVEAL: When a UN is present in combat.
283. War Frigate: You have the plans to build War
Frigates (use Unique Ship counters). They are E5-1 x2 and
have Design Weakness). They cost 10 CP.
REVEAL: When a UN is present in combat.
204. Governor: The Group gets 2 attacks in the first
combat round only. If on a Flagship or Titan, this applies
to all combat rounds. If on a Titan, each hit from the Group
also does 3 Damage, but every time a ship in the Group is hit
by a fighter, roll a die. On a roll of 10 a Titan is destroyed.
205. Security Officer: Regardless of whether the
Security Officer survives, all friendly crew in the same
Fleet as this officer get -2 to all survival rolls. All ships in
the Group get +1 defense against Boarding Ships. If on a
Flagship, select one additional Group at the beginning of
combat that will receive this benefit.
206-207. Damage Control Officer: If this Group has
any damage, after each round of combat it may attempt
repairs. On a roll of a 1 or less, repair all damage. On a
roll of a 2-5, repair 1 Damage. If on the Flagship or a BB,
subtract 2 from the die roll.
208-209. Ensign Expendable: This Crew Card can be
discarded to cancel one hit against this Group.
210-213. Hero: One ship in this Group gets +1 to Attack
Strength. If on a Group with a Hull Size of 1, it gets +2
and ignores the first hit against it in combat.
214-215. Engineer: This Group’s Movement Tech
operates at one level higher than currently installed, even
if that higher level has not been researched. It can’t operate
at a level above the maximum of 7.
216-217. Asteroid Navigator: This Group can ignore
Asteroids when moving. If playing with Thick Asteroids,
this Group does not take damage from the Asteroids. If on
a SC, DD, or Flagship, it also ignores Black Holes (unless
using Slingshot).
218-219. Nebula Navigator: This Group can ignore
Nebulae when moving. If on a SC, DD, or the Flagship,
it may also ignore Black Holes (unless using Slingshot,
31.0). If on a MB, it also ignores Asteroids when moving.
220-221. Helmsmen: This Group may fire and then
immediately retreat in the same round (they may still not
retreat on round 1 unless permitted by some other effect).
If on a Raider, the Group may also fire and retreat in round
1. The group retreats prior to any other effects e.g. Splash
Damage.
Crew Card List
Alien Technology Cards Crew Cards
Space Empires: All Good Things - Card Manifest & Deep Space Planet Attributes 9
© 2024 GMT Games, LLC
222-223. Supply Officer: Each ship in the Group pays
1 less maintenance. This is applied prior to any other
reductions due to experience, alien technologies, empire
advantages, etc.
224-225. Defender: Once per battle, after the first round,
at the start of a round, this Group may announce that it
is setting its defenses to “Area Mode.” For that round,
or until all ships in this Group are destroyed, all attacks
against other friendly Groups suffer an additional penalty
equal to the defense technology of the Defender Group (if
in a Nebula, this would be zero). However, attacks against
the Defender Group suffer no penalty due to its defense
technology. This may be used even if the Group is screened.
If on a BC, this benefit may be used in the first round.
226-227. Tactician: After the first round, during a single
round of combat, if your fleet in the combat contains
Groups of at least three different Hull Sizes, your ships
gain +1 Attack or +1 Defense for the round. This bonus is
determined at the start of the round and stays in effect even
if all ships of one hull size are destroyed partway through
the round. If on a BB or DN, this benefit may be used in
the first round.
228-229. Strategist: Once in each combat, choose four
enemy ships (not Groups) and decide which one of your
Groups they will fire against in that round. If that Group
is destroyed, they are free to choose their next target. The
designated Group must be a legal target (not screened, not a
CV with Fighters, etc.). If on a SC, DD, or MB, six enemy
ships may be chosen in that round.
230-231. First Officer: This Group gets +2 to its Tactics
level (to a max of 3). If on an SC or a DD, this Group also
improves its Weapon Class by one letter, even in terrain
(SC would fire as D-Class in Asteroids, etc.). This is in
addition to any other benefits like Longbowmen or Long
Lance Torpedo. If on the Flagship, this ship always fires
or retreats before all other ships in the combat, regardless
of technology or terrain.
232-233. Tactical Officer: Once during each battle,
this ship (not Group) may fire (or retreat if eligible) as
A-Class, even in terrain. If on an SC or DD this applies to
the entire Group. All ships in the Group get +1 to defense
against boarding. If on a Flagship, this applies to one other
group as well.
234-235. Captain: May reroll one attack from the Group
or have one attack against it rerolled once per combat
round. The decision must be made immediately after the
die is rolled. The first result is undone and the second roll
must be used. If on an SC, DD, CA, or MB, it may reroll
2 attacks per round.
236-237. Weapons Officer: Natural attack rolls of 1
by ships in this Group grant the attacking ship a second
attack roll (against the same or a different Group as the first
attack). If on an SC, DD, Raider, or Flagship, the second
attack roll is granted on 1 or 2.
238-239. Heavy Weapons Officer: All ships in this
Group do 2 damage every time they hit a Colony, any type
of Base, Shipyard, or Defense Satellite Network.
240-241. Science Officer: This Group cannot be targeted
by Mines in the same way as Anti-Sensor Hull. If on a
SW, this Group also sweeps one more Mine per ship.
242. Marine Captain: The Group can carry one extra
Ground Unit total even if it normally could not carry
Ground Units. If on a CA, each ship in the Group can carry
one Ground Unit. If on a Flagship, the Group may carry 4
Ground Units total. Ships in the Group carrying Ground
Units cannot be boarded.
243-244. Planetary Admiral: Group gets +1 Attack
Strength if fighting in a hex with a planet. If on a BB, DN,
or Titan, all ships in the fleet get this bonus.
245-246. Admiral of the Navy: This fleet gets a Fleet Size
Bonus when it has at least one more combat-capable ship
than the opponent. The opposing fleet does not get a Fleet
Size Bonus unless this Crew Card’s fleet is outnumbered
by 3:1. If the opposing fleet is Expert Tacticians or has
Agent Smith or has an Admiral of the Navy (or any
combination thereof), everything cancels each other out
and the Fleet Size Bonus is given at 2:1.
247-248. Fleet Admiral: This Group and 2 others get +1
Attack on the first round of combat only. If on a Titan, then
one additional Group gets this benefit.
249-250. Admiral: This Group and 2 others fight as one
Weapon Class higher for the first round of combat only.
If on a DN, then one additional Group gets this benefit.
Crew Cards
10 Space Empires: All Good Things - Card Manifest & Deep Space Planet Attributes
© 2024 GMT Games, LLC
251-252. Commander: If this fleet has more ships than
the opponent, it can designate one Group in this fleet that
cannot be shot at the first round unless all other ships are
destroyed (i.e., for target selection treat one Group as if they
were a Carrier with unscreened fighters the first round). If
on a BB, then one additional Group gets this benefit.
253. Rear Admiral: This Group and 1 other have their
Defense Strength increased by one for the first round of
combat only. If on a DN, then one additional Group gets
this benefit.
254-255. General Staff: In each combat, this Crew can
choose one hex that the enemy can’t retreat into as long as
the General Staff’s Group is in the combat. The decision
of which hex is forbidden is made when an enemy Group
announces intent to retreat for the first time and applies
to all enemy retreats in that combat. The Group may be
screened and still take advantage of this effect.
256. Ordnance Technician/ECCM Officer: If on a
CV or BV, all Fighters in the same fleet that would fire as
B-Class fire instead as A-Class. If on an MB, when this
Group fires on CAs with Jamming Technology, the Missiles
ignore all jamming. On any Group other than CV, BV or
MB, this Crew Card can be discarded to cancel one hit
against the Group.
257. Warrant Officer/ECCM Specialist: If on a CV
or BV, ships in this Group can carry 1 extra Fighter each. If
on an MB, all ships in this Group may fire ECCM Missiles
instead of using their normal attack. These Missiles do no
damage and do not attack enemy ships. For each ship that
fires ECCM Missiles each round, two Missiles fired by
other MBs ignore all jamming. On any group other than
CV, BV or MB, this Crew Card can be discarded to cancel
one hit against this Group.
258-260. Squadron Leader: Ships in this Group get +1
Attack Strength. If on a Fighter, the ships in this Group also
get +1 Defense Strength and fire as A-Class (regardless
of terrain).
261. CAG: If on a CV or BV, one Group of Fighters in
the fleet fires as A-Class and gets +1 to Attack Strength
each round, regardless of terrain. A different Group may
be chosen each round. On any group other than CV or BV,
this Crew Card can be discarded to cancel one hit against
this Group.
262. Deck Crew Chief: If on a CV or BV, at the end of a
round of combat, roll a die. On a roll of a 1-4, one friendly
Fighter that was destroyed that round is returned to service
(no benefit if no fighter was destroyed that round). If on a
BV, subtract 3 from the roll. If playing with Experience,
the Fighters that are returned are Skilled. On any group
other than CV or BV, this Crew Card can be discarded to
cancel one hit against this Group.
263-264. Gunnery Officer: Group fires at its normal
Weapon Class regardless of terrain. If on a BC, this applies
to one other Group as well.
265. Commodore: At the start of combat select one enemy
Group. This Group cannot split and cannot retreat until
round 3. If on a BB, this applies to all opposing Groups.
266. Marine Commander: If on a Transport, this Group
can drop Ground Units before space combat starts when
attacking another player (not NPAs). Ground combat is
still resolved after Space combat. On any group other than
Transport, this Crew Card can be discarded to cancel one
hit against his Group.
267. Marine Lieutenant: A Transport with this Crew
Card has “Suppressing Fire”: if this Group is present in a
hex where there is ground combat, pick one type of enemy
unit. All enemy units of that type get -2 Attack Strength on
the first round of ground combat. On any other ship this
Crew Card can be discarded to cancel one hit against this
group (this discard effect cannot be used on a Transport).
268-269. Special Warfare Technician: This Group’s
Point Defense, Cloaking, Scanners, Mine Sweeping,
Boarding, Exploration, Missile Boat, or Jammer
technologies operate as if they were one level higher than
currently installed, even if that technology has not been
researched. It cannot operate at a level above the maximum.
EXAMPLE: A Raider with Cloaking 2 gets no benefit from
this Crew Card.
270-271. Chief Engineer: This Group gets instant
technology upgrades, just like Bases or Shipyards.
272. Patrol Leader: If a Group with this Crew Card
spends its entire time between Economic Phases on
MS Pipelines that connect Colonies, the player gets an
additional 3 CP in the next Economic Phase. If this Crew
Card is on a DD, the player gets an additional 5 CP instead.
Crew Cards
Space Empires: All Good Things - Card Manifest & Deep Space Planet Attributes 11
© 2024 GMT Games, LLC
273-274. Astrometrics Officer: Once per Economic
Phase, immediately before new ships are placed, the player
may peek at one face down Group belonging to another
player within one hex of the Group with this Crew Card.
The Group remains face down after peeking. If this Crew
Card is on a CA, it may peek at a Group within three hexes.
275-276. Operations Officer: Once between Economic
Phases, the Group with this Crew Card may do one of the
following:
• Ignore the movement effect of one (and only one) hex
containing Nebula, Asteroids, Quantum Filament, Plasma
Storm, or a Black Hole (survival is automatic, but may
not use Black Hole Slingshot).
• All ships on this Group get either +1 Attack Strength or
+1 Defense Strength for one round.
Turn this Crew Card sideways to show that it has been
used and return it to vertical in the next Economic Phase.
REPLICATOR CREW CARDS
192. Mycroft: Natural attack rolls of “1” by ships in this
Group grant the attacking ship a second attack roll (these
may be against the same or different Groups). If on a ship
with Hull Size of 1, the second attack roll is granted on
rolls of 1-2.
193. Hive Queen: This Group gets +1 Defense Strength.
All OTHER Replicator Groups in the fleet get +1 Attack
Strength and -1 Defense Strength. This is not optional!
194. Hal 10K: This Group fires at its normal Weapon
class, regardless of terrain. Movement Rules are unaffected
by this.
195. ROMmie: Every time a ship in this Group suffers a
hit, roll a die. On a roll of 1, the hit is ignored.
196. WOPR: Once per round, this Group may reroll one
Attack die or choose one Attack die against the Group to
be rerolled. The decision must be made immediately after
the die is rolled. The first result is undone and the second
roll must be used.
197. Data: During movement only, this Group ignores
Asteroids, Nebulae, and Black Holes.
198. Skynet: During the first round of combat only, this
Group and 2 others of the Replicator player’s choice fight
as one Weapon Class higher.
199. Quorra: This Group cannot be targeted by Mines as
if equipped with Anti-Sensor Hull.
200. Agent Smith: This fleet gets a Fleet Size Bonus
when it has at least one more combat-capable ship than
the opponent. The opposing fleet does not get a Fleet Size
Bonus unless this Crew Card’s fleet is outnumbered by
3:1. If the opposing fleet is Expert Tacticians or has an
Admiral of the Navy (or both), everything cancels each
other out and the Fleet Size Bonus is given at 2:1.
201. Ash: In each combat, choose one hex into which
the enemy cannot retreat. The decision of which hex is
forbidden is made when an enemy Group announces intent
to retreat for the first time and applies to all enemy retreats
in that combat. The restriction is immediately lifted if this
Group is destroyed or retreats. The Group may be screened
and still take advantage of this effect.
202. Alexa: This Group’s Movement technology operates
as if it was one level higher than currently installed, even if
that higher level has not been researched. It can’t operate
at a level above the maximum of Movement 7.
203. Sonny: One ship in this Group gets +1 to Attack
Strength. If on a Group with a Hull Size of 1, it gets +2
and ignores the first hit against it in combat.
Crew Cards
12 Space Empires: All Good Things - Card Manifest & Deep Space Planet Attributes
© 2024 GMT Games, LLC
4. Dilithium Crystals 5/2: At the end of every Economic
Phase during which there is a full-strength Colony on this
planet, place a Dilithium counter on the planet if there isn’t
one already (if all Dilithium counters are already on the
map no additional one is placed). The player who owns this
Colony may use a Transport (21.1) to carry one counter
(and nothing else) to their Homeworld. If successfully
transported, the Dilithium counter provides a number of CP
equal to the distance from this planet to the Homeworld.
Use the shortest possible route when calculating distance,
taking into effect Warp Points (28.2) and Folds in Space
(25.2) but not Warp Gates. If Replicators grow a Colony
on this planet to full-strength, they remove this Attribute
and gain 10 CP. If a player’s Colony on this planet is
conquered or destroyed (including if a Titan destroys the
planet), any existing Dilithium counters carried by that
player’s Transports which originated from this planet may
still provide CP upon arrival to their Homeworld.
5. Abundant 5/2 (2 of these): This planet produces 2 extra
CP each Economic Phase during which there is a Colony
here, even if the Colony is new. Replicators treat this as
Mineral CP (40.6.1)
6. Wealthy 4/1 (2 of these): This planet produces 1 extra
CP each Economic Phase during which there is a Colony
here, even if the Colony is new. If a Replicator Colony is
placed here, remove this Attribute (the wealth comes from
the native economy; Replicators would ignore it).
7. Poor 2/0 (2 of these): This planet produces 1 less CP
each Economic Phase during which there is a Colony here,
to a minimum of 0. If a Replicator Colony is placed here,
remove this Attribute (the lack of wealth comes from the
native economy; Replicators would ignore it).
8. Desolate 1/0: This planet produces 4 less CP each
Economic Phase during which there is a Colony here,
to a minimum of 0. Replicators do not produce a ship at
this planet during an Economic Phase unless the Colony
is at Full and they pay 3 CP, but a Replicator Colony at
full strength may always be used to join/split/reconfigure
Replicator ships without cost (40.3.2).
9. Sparta 0/3: At the end of any Economic Phase during
which there is a full-strength Colony on this planet, that
Colony additionally produces either one Space Marine or
one Heavy Infantry (if the Colony’s owner does not have
Ground Combat 2 no unit is produced) If a Replicator
Colony is placed on this planet, remove this Attribute.
Deep Space Planet
Attribute List
1. Aggressive 4/0 (2 of these): Immediately reveal all NPA
ships in this hex when the counter is flipped. These ships
attack units that end their move in an adjacent hex, then
instantly move back to their own planet afterwards. During
any combat phase Aggressive NPAs will defend against
attacks on their own planet first, then will attack units in
adjacent hexes one by one (choose the order randomly if
multiple hexes eligible, colony hexes last, see below) until
they are destroyed or no enemy units remain in eligible
adjacent hexes. These attacks do not trigger Reaction
Movement (35.0). Aggressive NPAs will never attack units
in home systems or Thick Asteroids. They will also not
attack NPAs except ones captured by players (they will
attack solo Alien Empire opponent units).
They will only attack units in hexes with deep space colonies
once no units remain in hexes without colonies. If the
defending units are destroyed any colony is automatically
destroyed too without bombardment. Aggressive NPAs
do not cause mines to be detonated (this is an exception to
17.1.4); however, they lose this feature if they are captured
or join Amazing Diplomats. If all Aggressive NPA ships
are destroyed while in a hex adjacent to their own planet,
randomly draw one NPA ship and place it on their planet,
this ship will not perform any more attacks until the next
combat phase. This Attribute is removed when the planet
is colonized.
2. Spice 0/4: This planet can only be taken via Ground
Combat (21.8); it can never be colonized with a Colony
Ship. If an attempt to take this planet fails, the next invasion
force will again face 4 Heavy Infantry and 5 Militia. Once
conquered by a player, future invasions will only need to
defeat that player’s Ground Units (without the replenished
Heavy Infantry). If a player’s Colony is destroyed by
bombardment, the now empty planet will once again be
guarded by 4 HI and 5 Militia. If a full-strength Colony
is on the planet at the end of an Economic Phase, all that
player’s ships (in supply, 36.5) move at a rate 1 technology
level higher until the next Economic Phase. Replicators
(40.0) also receive this benefit. If a Replicator Colony is
removed from this planet, remove this Attribute.
3. Organia 0/0: This planet cannot be conquered,
colonized, or connected to a player’s trade network
(13.2.2). No combat can occur in this planet’s hex, but it
may be moved or retreated into even if enemy ships are
present in the hex. Treat this space as a Galactic Capitol
(28.1) for purposes of movement restrictions. Because
combat is forbidden, Replicators do not gain RPs from other
ships in this hex, even for encountering an NPA (18.0).
Deep Space Planet Attributes
Space Empires: All Good Things - Card Manifest & Deep Space Planet Attributes 13
© 2024 GMT Games, LLC
10. Defensible 4/0: All defending Ground Units (including
Militia) on this planet get +1 Defense Strength. There is no
extra effect on colony bombardment rolls.
11. Dampening 4/1: Because of a strong dampening field
that interferes with FTL travel, all ships must stop after
entering this planet hex. All ships must also stop after
leaving this hex. Nothing can remove this movement
restriction, including MS Pipelines (13.2.1). However, an
MS Pipeline can still connect to the Colony and provide
its standard increase to CP.
12. Ambush 4/1: All attacking ships in this hex fire as if
they are E-Class (this supersedes any effects from cards).
Boarding Ships still fire as F-Class. If a Replicator Colony
is placed on this planet, remove this Attribute.
13. Doomed 1/0: When this planet is revealed, place a
numeral marker with a 6 in the hex. Reduce the numerical
marker by 1 each Economic Phase. When the numeral
marker should be reduced from 1 to 0, remove it instead.
The planet explodes and destroys all units in the hex;
replace it with an Asteroid counter (or terrain tile.) If
this planet is removed for any other reason (Titan attack,
Replicator Colony depletion), remove this Attribute and
the numerical countdown marker.
14. Builder 5/0: Any colony on the planet is treated as
having a shipyard capacity of 3 in addition to any shipyard
in the hex. This is not modified by technology and provides
no benefit in combat. Ships can be retrofitted in this hex as
if an SY was present. If a Replicator Colony is placed on
this planet, remove this Attribute.
15. Spaceport 0/0: This planet is a neutral spaceport
and cannot be colonized or fired upon, though it can be
connected to a player’s trade network as if it were a Colony.
It may not have Fighters or Ground Units on the planet.
Combat occurs normally in the hex, but the planet is always
unaffected. A player who has a unit in this hex at the start of
the Economic Phase may build one ship of Ship Size 1 in
this hex for 2 CP more than that ship’s usual cost. A Raider
using Cloak to avoid combat does not allow a player the
ability to build a ship here. A Replicator player with units
in this hex may move a newly-built Size 1 ship to this hex
for 1 CP at the end of the Economic Phase.
16. Research 5/0: When colonized for the first time (only),
this planet gives one level of technology. Roll on the Space
Wreck table. If a Replicator Colony is placed on this planet,
remove this Attribute and treat the Replicators as if they
consumed a Space Wreck, gaining 1 RP.
17. Minor Technology 4/0: Instead of drawing two Alien
Technology Cards and choosing one (11.0), the player draws
three and chooses one. Replicators gain no additional benefit;
they draw one card and immediately discard it, gaining 10
CP as normal.
18. Major Technology 5/1: Instead of drawing two Alien
Technology Cards and choosing one (11.0), the player
draws three and chooses two. Replicators draw two cards
and immediately discard both, gaining 20 CP (10 CP per
card as normal).
19. Cloaked 4/0: All NPA ships in this planet hex have
Cloaking 2 but will not cloak to avoid combat. Replicators
entering combat with these NPAs are treated as encountering
Cloaking, thereby unlocking Scanners.
20. Ranged 4/1: All NPA ships here fire as if they are one
Weapon Class better. When this planet is first colonized, the
player gets 10 CP off the next level of Tactics Technology
they research (the counter is removed and kept as a
reminder). Replicators entering combat with these NPAs
are treated as encountering Tactics 2, potentially gaining an
RP. If a Replicator Colony is placed on this planet, remove
this Attribute without further effect.
21. Accurate 4/1: All NPA ships here have +1 to their Attack
Strength. When this planet is first colonized, the player gets 10
CP off the next Attack Technology they research (the counter
is removed and kept as a reminder). Replicators entering
combat with these NPAs are treated as encountering Attack
1, potentially gaining an RP. If a Replicator Colony is placed
on this planet, remove this Attribute without further effect.
22. Shielded 4/1: All NPA ships here have +1 to their
Defense Strength. When this planet is first colonized, the
player gets 10 CP off the next Defense Technology they
research (the counter is removed and kept as a reminder).
Replicators entering combat with these NPAs are treated
as encountering Defense 1, potentially gaining an RP. If
a Replicator Colony is placed on this planet, remove this
Attribute without further effect.
23. Giant 4/1: All NPA ships here have +1 Hull Points except
for determining if they are equipped with Scanner or Point
Defense technology. When this planet is first colonized, the
player gets 10 CP off the next Ship Size Technology they
research (the counter is removed and kept as a reminder).
Replicators entering combat with these NPAs are treated
as encountering a Cruiser, potentially gaining an RP. If a
Replicator Colony is placed on this planet, remove this
Attribute without further effect.
Deep Space Planet Attributes
14 Space Empires: All Good Things - Card Manifest & Deep Space Planet Attributes
© 2024 GMT Games, LLC
28. Time Dilation 6/2: Time moves twice as fast on this
planet. During the Economic Phase, a Colony on this planet
grows twice and produces twice. A Colony with a 1 marker
on it would produce 1 CP, grow to a 3 marker, produce 3
CP, and then grow to a 5 marker in one Economic Phase.
Twice as many Shipyards or Bases can be produced in
one Economic Phase as is normally allowed and each
existing Shipyard can produce twice as many ships. The
first (or only) Shipyard built on this planet during any one
Economic Phase may produce a normal number of ships
in that Economic Phase. After combat, the planet may be
bombarded by each ship twice. Replicator Colonies are
not affected as described above. Replicator Colonies that
begin an Economic Phase at full growth may build a single
Hull Size 2 ship directly instead of creating two Hull Size
1 ships.
111. Carthage: The Barren Planet in each Home System
is occupied by a hostile alien race. It is treated like a Deep
Space planet, complete with NPAs, drawing Technology
Cards, etc. It cannot have the Aggressive Deep Space
Planet Attribute. If that attribute is revealed on that planet,
discard it, and immediately draw another. Each player
cannot explore or enter Deep Space until they defeat
these NPAs in their home system. They are the major
competing power in your region and must be defeated
before conquering the universe.
112. Fruitful: Barren Planets in a Home System do not
need Terraforming to colonize, but are still considered
Barren for the purpose of other cards.
113. Worth the Effort: If a Colony on a Barren Planet
produces any CP, it produces 2 extra CP (or the appropriate
type of point if a Facility is present). Do not use (draw
another card) if Replicators are in the game.
114. Extinct Alien Empire: The Barren Planet in each
player’s Home System has no NPAs but provides Alien
Technology Cards when colonized; Draw 4 cards and keep
2. Do not use (draw another card) if Replicators are in the
game. The Xeno-Archeology Resource Card may not be
used when colonizing this planet.
115. Expert Empires: When drawing Empire Advantage
cards, draw 4 and keep 2. Warning – there can be some
crazy combinations when playing with this variant, but it
is fun.
Scenario Modifier Card List
24. Military Geniuses 4/1: All NPA ships here have +1
Attack and +1 Defense. When this planet is colonized, the
player draws two Crew Cards (12.0) and keeps one, which
can be used immediately or at the next Econ Phase. In
addition, whenever a Crew Card is used, it may be placed
on a ship in this hex, if colonized.
25. Jedun 5*/2: All NPA ships here have +1 Attack, +1
Defense, and +1 Tactics. When this planet has a Colony,
the owner may place one group (ships or Ground Units)
with up to 8 Hull Points under this counter; the group is
studying at the Jedun Temple. Only one group may be
studying at the Jedun Temple at a time and that group
may not simultaneously upgrade their ships. If it does not
move for three consecutive turns, the group is marked with
a Jedun counter for the rest of the game. This group gets
+1 Attack, +1 Defense, +1 Tactics to its base stats. These
bonuses are not considered technological, but rather a
consequence of the disciplined training the crew received
at the temple. It is possible for a group to have an effective
rating of Tactics 4 because of this. No units may be added
to this group unless they also have a Jedun counter and any
Group split off gains a Jedun counter. Jedun ships that are
captured are no longer Jedun (due to the change in crew).
If a Replicator Colony is placed on this planet or the planet
is destroyed, remove this Attribute without further effect;
preexisting groups with Jedun counters retain their bonuses.
26. Telepathic 5/1: If a player has a Colony on this planet,
their ships that start in the hex and do not move may be
placed under the Telepathic counter. At the end of another
player’s movement phase (before ships are revealed in
combat), ships under the Telepathic counter may be placed
in any battle hex within range of what they could have
moved to in their previous turn. They are considered part
of the defending forces from the start of the battle. They
may also be placed in a hex adjacent to the Colony with
no enemy combat units present. They may do this even if
their hex has an attacking fleet in it. This represents the
people of the planet warning them of where enemy units
are going to move and thereby being able to intercept or
avoid them. If a Replicator Colony is placed on this planet,
remove this Attribute without further effect.
27. Scanning 6/2: There is a massive scanning array built
into this planet which is far beyond the technology of the
players. If a player has a Colony on this planet, all enemy
ships within 2 hexes of the planet are flipped to their
revealed side (immediately when the colony is placed and
immediately when ships enter later). If a Replicator Colony
is on the planet, they receive the same benefit.
Deep Space Planet Attributes Scenario Modifier Cards
Space Empires: All Good Things - Card Manifest & Deep Space Planet Attributes 15
© 2024 GMT Games, LLC
116. No Sensor Lock Possible: No combat can occur in
Nebulae, all other rules remain the same. It is a neutral
space. Both combat and non-combat ships of all players
may enter and end their turn in the hex, ignoring the units
of other players. Replicators do not gain RPs from enemy
units in this hex.
117. Thick Asteroids: All other rules for Asteroids are
the same, except all ships take one damage in Asteroids.
Non-combat ships and ships with one Hull are destroyed;
all other ships have one damage on them while in the
Asteroids (this is an exception to the rule that only one
ship in a group may have damage). They are immediately
healed upon exiting Asteroids. This applies to the Space
Pilgrims Empire Advantage as well. Missiles cannot
be fired in Asteroids. The Insectoids, Giant Race, and
Industrious Race Empire Advantages cannot be used if
this is in effect.
118. Advanced Navigation: Ships do not have to start
adjacent in order to enter Asteroids or Nebulae but must
still stop upon entering. All other rules are the same.
119. Expensive Ships: All units except Ground Units cost
1 CP extra to build. For the Replicator player the first 15
CP of Minerals collected provide no income.
120. Planetary Gates: All planets within 3 hexes are
connected by Planetary Gates (see CSB 9.0 but do not
place extra Barren Planets at setup).
121. A Way Through: All rules for Super Novas are the
same except they can be entered by specific type(s) of ship,
and anything being carried by that ship (Fighters, Ground
Units, etc. on board). For that type of ship the Super Nova
is like an empty hex. During setup, roll a die: 1-2 SC, 3-4
DD, 5 CA, 6 BC, 7 BB, 8 Raiders, 9 MB & CV & BV,
10 Flagship & Transport. Indicate the result of the roll
by placing ship(s) from an unused empire on this card or
writing a note on scratch paper. Do not use (draw another
card) if Replicators are in the game.
122. Better Homes: Home Planets produce 10 CP more
if at full strength. The Replicator Homeworld produces 2
extra Hull Points if at full strength.
123. Improved Colony Ships: When colonizing a planet
(4.4) the colony starts at 1 CP. Bombardment and other
game effects can reduce colonies to 0 as normal.
124. Close Quarters: Some ships have lower Weapon
classes:
• DD, CA, Raiders with nullified cloak are E-Class.
• BC and Fighters are D-Class.
• BB are C-Class.
• DN are B-Class.
These classes can be increased by Alien Tech Cards, Empire
Advantages, and other effects. Unique Ships cannot be used.
Do not use (draw another card) if Replicators are in the game.
125. Big Ships and Tractor Beams: All players start with
Ship Size 4. Replicators start with SC/DD/CA already
checked off. All players start with Tractor Beams, and
all BBs and Type XI Replicator Ships are automatically
equipped with them. Do not draw a Special Ability for
BBs if using an Alternate Empire; they get this instead.
The cost to research Ship Size 7 is 50 CP instead of 30 CP.
126. Big Ships and Shield Projectors: All players start
with Ship Size 5. Replicators start with SC/DD/CA/
BC already checked off. All players start with Shield
Projectors and all DNs and Type XIIIs Replicator Ships
are automatically equipped with them. Do not draw a
Special Ability for DNs in an Alternate Empire; they get
this instead. The cost to research Ship Size 7 is 60 instead
of 30. If the Big Ships and Tractor Beams card is also
drawn, each player gets both Tractor Beams and Shield
Projectors, but use the higher values for Ship Size, ships
checked off, and cost to research Ship Size 7.
127. Advanced Destroyers: All DDs are DDX. Replicators
get +1 RP at start.
128. Battlecarrier Universica: BVs can be built as soon
as Fighter 2 tech is researched. Replicators get +1 RP at
start. Do not use (draw another card) if an Alternate Empire
is in the game.
129. Raiders: All Raiders are Raider Xs (38.9), but each
player gets Scanner 2 for free the moment Scanner 1 is
researched (buying Scanner 1 allows you to detect all
raiders). NPAs with Scanners still only have Scanner 1.
Replicators get +1 RP at start.
130. Advanced Bases: All players may build Advanced
Bases (38.4) at start. Replicators get +1 RP at start.
Scenario Modifier Cards
16 Space Empires: All Good Things - Card Manifest & Deep Space Planet Attributes
© 2024 GMT Games, LLC
determine randomly which one it will enter. It will avoid
moving into a hex with combat-capable ships and Bases
if doing so does not increase the number of hexes to reach
the Homeworld. Warning: This drastically changes the
game. It is a real danger to explore Deep Space when this
is in effect.
137. Space Amoebas: Play according to the rules for the
Space Amoeba scenario (CSB 10.0).
138. Heavy Terrain: Place 2 System markers in each
Deep Space hex. If there are not enough markers to do
this, place them so that they evenly cover rows between
the players starting in the center. For example, if there were
6 rows of Deep Space between the players and there was
only enough to cover 5 rows, then only the center 4 rows
of Deep Space get a second marker. Both are revealed and
explored simultaneously (If using Exploration Technology
both are looked at simultaneously by one ship and it is not
possible to reveal only one marker). If a Super Nova or Fold
in Space is revealed, then remove the other marker. If a hex
has both a Super Nova and a Fold in Space, remove the
Fold in Space. If a Cosmic Storm (25.1) is flipped, remove
it if the other marker is something a Storm cannot enter.
Otherwise, if there are two permanent terrain markers, they
both remain. Use the terrain tile from one of them and put
the other counter on top of it.
EXAMPLE: If an Asteroid and Nebula were revealed in
the same hex, then everyone fires as E-Class; there is no
Cloak, no Attack Tech, and no Defense Tech.
139. Safer Space: Whenever a Danger! marker is flipped,
one die is rolled for each ship in that hex. They are only
eliminated on a roll of 7-10. On a roll of 1-6, there is no
effect.
140. Smart Scientists: The research cost of all technologies
is decreased by 5 CP before any Empire Advantage is
applied. Replicators also get +1 RP at start.
141. Trained Defenders: When invaded, every Colony
gets 2 Heavy Infantry Militia in addition to any other
Militia or Ground Units from other sources. These two
are represented by a separate HI counter and are removed
at the end of ground combat, regardless of who wins (All
other HI is targeted first i.e. at the end of combat remove
2 HI or 1 if it’s the only HI left. No effect if no HI are left
at the end of combat). Do not use (draw another card) if
Replicators are in the game.
131. Tough Planets: Planetary Defense Strength from
Ground Units present is doubled.
EXAMPLE: if 4 Ground Units are present, the planet has
a Defense Strength of 4 and not 2.
Ships attacking Replicator colonies get -1 to their Attack
Strength.
132. Tough Shipyards: All Shipyards, regardless of
Empire Advantage, have Hull Size 2 (C3-0-2) and can
mount Attack 2 and Defense 2 technology. Maintenance
and all other SY rules remain the same. When this is in
play, the Empire Advantage On the Move can’t be used.
Replicators get +1 RP at start.
133. Stealth Transports: If no type of Base or Defense
Satellite Network is present, Ground Units can be landed
before resolving space combat or after any round during
which the Base or DSN that prevented landing was
destroyed. Ion Cannons do not prevent the early landing
of Ground Units.
134. Ion Cannons: All player Colonies are equipped with
Ion Cannons. Similar to the Militia counter, the Ion Cannon
counter is added to the defending force for space combat.
There is no penalty for their destruction. They do not benefit
from nor provide rolls for experience. A Colony, regardless
of size (even a new one), will have 3 Ion Cannons. Even if
destroyed, there will be three available at the start of the
next combat. These count towards the Fleet Size Bonus and
automatically upgrade tech to the limit of their Hull Size
(similar to a Base). No maintenance cost needs to be paid
for the Ion Cannons and they cannot be boarded. They are
A5-0-x1 regardless of Empire Advantage.
135. We Need the White: At the start of the 6th Econ
Phase, each player selects their Home System Colony that
is farthest in hexes from their Homeworld. If there is a tie,
each player may choose between their own tied colonies.
Mark that colony with a Key Planet counter. If that Colony
is ever destroyed or captured, that player loses the game
(as if they lost their Homeworld).
136. Doomsday Machines: Whenever a Doomsday
Machine (29.0) is discovered in Deep Space it attacks the
ship that discovered it. If Exploration Technology (9.8)
was used, the DM is revealed and placed in the hex with
the ship that discovered it; ships in that hex cannot move
that turn and no other ships may enter that hex. If the DM
survives the battle it will move one hex per turn by the
fastest route to attack the Homeworld of the player that
discovered it. It will remove planets and Asteroids along
the way. If two hexes are equidistant to the Homeworld,
Scenario Modifier Cards
Space Empires: All Good Things - Card Manifest & Deep Space Planet Attributes 17
© 2024 GMT Games, LLC
142. Know the Weakness: All Unique Ships are equipped
with Design Weakness ability. However, instead of giving
an opponent’s randomly rolled ship type a +2 Attack against
the Unique Ships, the Unique Ships get +2 against the
randomly rolled ship type. Roll on the usual table when a
UN from a given player first enters combat to determine
the ship type. There are no cost savings for Unique Ships
having this installed and it does not count towards the
other techs they can have installed. The standard version
of Design Weakness cannot be chosen when using this
Scenario Modifier. Discard and draw another card if not
playing with Unique Ships.
143. No Temporal Prime Directive: When spending
Temporal Points (36.6), everything costs half of normal
(rounded up). Discard and draw another card if not playing
with Facilities. Beware End of Empire!
144. Bloody Combat: All units except Ground Units have
their Attack Strength increased by one.
145. Experienced Crew: At the start of the game, all
Players draw 6 Crew Cards (12.0) and keep 3. Set them
aside. These Crew are held in reserve and not assigned to
a group until the player chooses to do so. They can only
be assigned to a newly built group during an Economic
Phase. No other Crew Cards are used in this game (except
if drawn by Resource Card).
146. Life is Complicated: Discard this card and draw 2
in its place. A total of 3 Scenario Modifier Cards will be
in effect for this game.
147. Rich Minerals: The income from all Minerals is
doubled. If Minerals +5/-3 is being used to change the
value of the Mineral, that change happens before the
doubling.
148. Technology Head Start: Each player starts the game
with 75 CP that can only be spent on technology. This is
spent before receiving starting units so it is possible that a
player’s original units may start with additional technology.
No more than two levels of Ship Size or Movement tech and
no more than one level of any other tech may be purchased
at start. Up to 10 of these CP may be carried over into the
start of the game (and used as normal CP in the game) - if
playing with Facilities, these are RP and not CP. Do not
use (draw another card) if Replicators are in the game.
149. Low Maintenance: All maintenance costs are
halved. When calculating maintenance, add up the total
maintenance cost that you would normally pay (including
modifiers from e.g. experience) and then divide it in half
(rounded down). When tracking the change in maintenance
on the Production Sheet, extra notes will have to be kept on
the pre-halved value to prevent having to recount all of your
maintenance costs every Economic Phase. If Robot Race
is being used, that player would pay no maintenance. Do
not use (draw another card) if Replicators are in the game.
277. Weak NPAs: All deep space Barren planets have one
less ship and one less Heavy Infantry (minimum 0).
278. Hardy Empires: All Empires start with Terraforming
1. Replicators get +1 RP at start.
279. Second Salvo: CAs are automatically equipped with
Second Salvo at no extra cost as per the Unique Ship
Rules. Prior to Economic Phase 8 Flagships are treated
as having Second Salvo while in combat in the Home
System of their owner. After Economic Phase 8, they are
automatically and permanently equipped with it. Do not
use (draw another card) if Replicators are in the game. Do
not use Cloaking Geniuses if this card is in play.
280. Recon Ships: In addition to the normal starting forces,
each player receives 6 Recon Ships (use Unique Ship
counters). They are E1-0 x1, but cost no maintenance. They
may be upgraded, but not built. Do not use the normal UN
rules. If a player draws Alien Tech Cards 282 or 283, the
player may remove any remaining Recon Ships in order
to build the new design, but may not build other designs.
66. Red Squadron (Cancel Card) Value: 4/2
Effect: Play before the battle begins, but after ships are revealed.
One FTR Group currently in battle gets an additional +1 to attack
for the remainder of the battle.
67. Sensor Blind Spot (Cancel Card) Value: 4/2
Effect: Play before the battle begins, but after ships are revealed.
A single unit with a cloak that has been nullified by Scanners
during combat may hide in the sensor blind spot of a unit with
Hull Size x3 or greater. The Raider immediately makes a retreat
from battle. This doesn’t need to be a hex closer to a friendly
Colony than the hex the battle was in.
Resource Card List
Scenario Modifier Cards Resource Cards
18 Space Empires: All Good Things - Card Manifest & Deep Space Planet Attributes
© 2024 GMT Games, LLC
case the Replicator could theoretically build a Type XIII or XV
AND another Hull Size 1 ship.
74-75. Heroic Ground Unit Value: 4/2
Effect: Play before the first round of a ground battle begins. Select
one of your non-Militia Ground Units (one unit, not an entire
Group). It will be Heroic for the rest of the game or until it is
destroyed. Heroic Ground Units get +1 to their Attack/Defense/
Hull Size. This card may not be combined with Defending
Familiar Terrain to create a Heroic Heavy Infantry Militia.
74. Flavor Text: “For the Honor of the Regiment!” The art used
for this card is the crest of the regiment that Oliver Upshaw, this
game’s developer, served in.
Replicator Effect: Extra Hull. See the note for Card #70.
76. Defending Familiar Terrain Value: 3/1
Effect: Play before the first round of a ground battle to upgrade a
planet’s Militia to Heavy Infantry for the duration of the combat
(21.10). May even be played if the defender is only at Ground
Combat 1. May be played when another player attacks NPAs.
A counter is provided so that the players can keep separate any
real defending Infantry/Heavy Infantry.
Replicator Effect: Extra Move. Play this card before moving
to move one Replicator ship (not a Group), one extra space this
turn. Additionally, for each other Resource Card you discard
unused from your hand, one additional Replicator ship that is
part of the same Group can also move one extra space. Two
of these cards cannot be used in combination to make one
Replicator ship move two extra spaces in one move.
77. Research Breakthrough Value: 2/1
Effect: Play this card to allow you to research two levels of the
same technology in the same Economic Phase at the combined
cost of the technologies in question plus 5 CP. If you are using
IC/RC rules (36.0), the extra cost is 5 RP. This is the only card
effect that cannot be canceled when played. When you discard
it, you do not have to announce if it was played for its effect
or for CP.
Replicator Effect: Extra Move. See the note for Card #76.
78. Quick Study Value: 3/1
Effect: Play before a friendly or enemy Group rolls for
Experience. Shift the dice result by +/–2. This affects all
Experience die rolls made by that Group this round.
Replicator Effect: Extra Move. See the note for Card #76.
79. Discover Member of Ancient Race Value: 4/2
Effect: Play at the start of an Econ Phase where you will roll
on the Space Wreck Technology Table. After you roll, you may
68. Self Destruct (Cancel Card) Value: 4/2
Effect: Play after one of your ships is captured. Immediately
destroy it. The enemy gains no knowledge of your abilities from
capturing this ship. The ship still counts as captured for the
purpose of Ship Experience Promotion Rolls (37.3.2).
69. Concealed Minefield (Cancel Card) Value: 4/2
Effect: Play before the battle begins, but after ships are revealed.
Before Enemy Minesweepers sweep your Mines, one of your Mines
may detonate as normal – even against a Minesweeper (17.0).
70-73. Heroic Ships Value: 5/3
Effect: Play before the battle begins, but after ships are revealed.
Select one of the ships listed on the card title (a single ship, not
a Group). It is Heroic for the rest of the game. Heroic ships
get +1 to their Attack and Defense. They also take one more hit
to destroy (this is cumulative with the Legendary bonus; 37.0).
They do not pay maintenance. Heroic status is lost if the ship
is captured or destroyed. Instead of using a number counter
under the ship, use one of the Heroic counters with a star on
it. If the ship ever gets flipped face down again, it will look like
any other ship. In the very rare case where a player may have
2 Heroic ships of the same type in the same hex, they may flip
the Heroic counter to the 2-star side.
When playing with Crew Cards (12.0), these Resource Cards
cannot be used to make ships Heroic. Instead, they can be played
at any time to draw 2 Crew Cards and keep 1. They may be
immediately assigned or assigned during the next Econ Phase.
70. Flavor Text: “There will always be a Rodger Young in
the Federation fleet.” Inspired by Admiral Ernest J. King who
stated that “There’ll always be an England in the United States
Navy.” This was in response to DE-635 USS England’s sinking
six Japanese Submarines between 18-27 May 1944.
71. Flavor Text: “All Hands to General Quarters! ECM to
Maximum! Hard a Port! Prepare to engage a major portion of
the enemy fleet.” Inspired by the orders given by Commander
Evans aboard DD-557 USS Johnston at the Battle of Leyte Gulf.
72. Flavor Text: “The Empire expects every member of this
crew to do his duty today!” Inspired by Admiral Nelson’s speech
before the Battle of Trafalgar.
Replicator Effect: Play this card to build an extra Hull on the
Replicator Homeworld. Only one of these cards may be played
at the start of an Economic Phase. This card may be combined
with buying an extra Hull and with the Replicator Capitol
Empire Advantage so that up to 4 Hulls could theoretically be
produced in one Economic Phase. Since it only takes three ships
of Hull Size 1 to build a Type XIII or Type XV, in this extreme
Resource Cards
Space Empires: All Good Things - Card Manifest & Deep Space Planet Attributes 19
© 2024 GMT Games, LLC
add or subtract up to 2 to the dice, even looping through the
results. For example, a 10 can be shifted to a 2 and a 2 can be
shifted to a 10.
Replicator Effect: Extra Move. See the note for Card #76.
80. Overload Weapons Value: 5/3
Effect: For this effect, an additional Resource card must be
discarded unused from your hand. Play before one of your ships
(not Group) fires. When calculating the number needed to get
a hit, double the Attack tech that is on the ship. For example, a
BC with Attack 1 would have an Attack Strength of 7. If a hit is
scored the target takes an extra 2 points of damage. This means
a SC could one shot kill a DN/BB/Base with this card. If used
on a Missile Boat, the card must be played when placing the
Missile, doubles the Missiles attack tech, and the Missile would
do 4 damage if it hits. For the rest of the battle the selected ship’s
Attack Strength is considered to be zero. The Ship Selected must
mount at least Attack 1.
Replicator Effect: Extra Move. See the note for Card #76.
81. Unconventional Boarding Value: 5/3
Effect: For this effect, an additional Resource card must be
discarded unused from your hand. Play this card instead of
performing your ship’s normal attacks. Select an enemy ship and
attack it with a boarding strength of 5. Subtract the Hull Size
of the targeted ship from this Attack Strength. Security Forces
have no effect on this die roll. And We Still Carry Swords
(Empire Advantage #47) gives the +1/–1 bonus as normal.
Experience, except for the extra Hull of a Legendary/Heroic
Ship, has no effect on this roll. Add 2 to this Attack Strength
if you have researched Boarding 1. Add 2 more if you have
researched Boarding 2. This can only be used against ships that
normally can be boarded. If you are not playing with Boarding
Ships (19.0), then this card cannot be played for its effect. This
effect can’t be used against Replicators and cannot be used by
or against Alternate Empires or Immortals.
Replicator Effect: Extra Move. See the note for Card #76.
82-83. Xeno-Archeology Value: 2/1
Effect: If you spend 10 CP in the next Econ Phase, you may
keep the second Alien Tech card that you drew when capturing
a planet (11.1). This card must be played before discarding one
of the Alien Tech cards. If played, the 10 CP must be spent in
the next Econ Phase. If playing without non-player Aliens, the
player must normally spend 10 CP to keep one Alien Technology
Card. Xeno-Archeology could be played to allow the player
to spend an additional 10 CP to keep the other card. If this card
is canceled the 10 CP does not have to be paid.
Replicator Effect: After having earned an Alien Technology
Card, gain an RP instead of 10 CP. Replicator player plays this
immediately upon earning an Alien Tech Card. If this card is
canceled, the Replicator player still gets to turn in the Alien
Tech Card for 10 CP.
84. Missed Rendezvous Value: 2
Effect: Play before ships are revealed in battle. If the other
side has units participating in this battle that entered the hex
from at least two different hex sides or via Reaction Movement
(35.0), all ships entering through a selected hexside do not
show up until the second round of combat. These ships
cannot retreat until the third round. For the delayed units,
the second round is treated as the first round, the third round
as the second, etc. in all respects (including when using the
Empire Advantages #31 Fearless Race, #38 Hive Mind, etc.)
Minesweepers that arrive on the second round of combat cannot
sweep any remaining Mines. Ships with Shield Projectors
that arrive on the second round of combat can only protect ships
that also arrived in the second round of combat.
85. Activate Space Monstrosity Value: 4/2
Effect: Play before Doomsday Machines (29.0) move or Space
Amoebas spread (SSB 3.0 and CSB 10.0). Choose a Doomsday
Machine or Space Amoeba. You determine where it moves/
spreads to, not the normal rules of the game. Though you cannot
select a Black Hole hex for a Space Amoeba to spread to and you
cannot move the DM/SA into a player’s Home System hexes.
The DM can still only move up to two hexes and the SA will
still only spread to one hex. If not playing with either Doomsday
Machines or Space Amoebas, this card can’t be used for its event.
86. Spawn Doomsday Machine Value: 4
Effect: For this effect, an additional Resource card must be
discarded unused from your hand. This card must be played at
the start of your turn prior to your movement. Place a Doomsday
Machine (29.0) in a Deep Space hex that is adjacent to one of
your SC/SCXs and does not contain any terrain or unit counters.
This does not cause an unrevealed SC/SCX to become revealed.
It is not under any player’s control and will operate according
to the rules in section 29.0. If not playing with DMs, the card
cannot be played for its effect. If this card is played successfully
for its effect, it does not go into your discard pile; it is set aside
and is unusable for the rest of the game. For this card Replicator
Type 0, II, and IV ships are considered a SC/SCX.
87-88. Spy on Board Value: 4
Effect: Play at the start of your turn or the start of an Econ
Phase to flip over all the enemy units or NPA Aliens in one hex.
89. Provide Cover Value: 3
Effect: Play after an enemy Group targets one of your Groups.
Designate another one of your Groups as the target of the attack.
The target you choose may not be a Titan, any Base, Defense
Satellite Network, Ion Cannon, Shipyard, or CV/BV (if you
have Fighters present), or be protected by Shield Projector. It
must be a legal target. All ships in the enemy Group must fire
at the designated Group for this round of battle. They gain a
+1 to their attack. If your Group is destroyed before the last
Resource Cards
20 Space Empires: All Good Things - Card Manifest & Deep Space Planet Attributes
© 2024 GMT Games, LLC
• At the start of your player turn, select one Nebula, Asteroid
hex, or Black Hole. All your ships that start their movement
beside this hex this turn may move through it (provided they
have enough movement) without having to stop or having to
roll a Black Hole survival check (6.3). This card cannot be
combined with a Black Hole Slingshot Maneuver (31.0).
98-99. Planetary Bombardment Value: 2
Effect: Play before bombardment of a Colony starts (5.10). If
played by the defender, give +2 to all of the attacker’s die rolls.
If played by the attacker, give -2 to all their die rolls. Titans
are not affected by this card. Transports using Anti-Replicator
technology against a Start-level Replicator Colony are not
affected by this card (40.2.5).
100-101. Update Your Charts Value: 3
Effect: Play at the start of your turn or the start of an Econ Phase.
Can be played in one of two ways:
• Select a hex that is beside an unrevealed Deep Space marker
and that does not contain a System marker or a player unit.
Add a random Deep Space marker that was set aside at the
beginning of the game to that hex.
• Select two unrevealed Deep Space markers and exchange their
positions on the board.
102. Play Dead Value: 5/3
Effect: To play this card, an additional Resource card must
be discarded unused from your hand. Play after one of your
non-Titan ships is destroyed. Treat this ship as screened for the
rest of the battle. It cannot be targeted for the rest of the battle.
In cannot fire nor can it retreat. If you win the battle, the ship
recovers all damage and rejoins your other ships. If you lose
the battle, the enemy will destroy it at no cost. The enemy does
get to roll for Experience when they “kill” the ship during the
battle (37.0). Experience gained by this roll is not lost if the ship
survives the battle. This effect cannot be used to save a Missile.
103. Overconfidence Value: 3
Effect: Play during combat, after fleets are revealed but before
the first round starts. Enemy ships in this battle may not retreat
(5.9) until one round later than normal (Round 3 for most ships,
round 4 if combined with #84 Missed Rendezvous, etc.).
104. Hidden Power Value: 3
Effect: Play at the start of your turn or the start of an Econ Phase.
Immediately draw up to 3 Resource Cards.
105. Sanctions Value: 3
Effect: Play at the start of your turn. Choose one opponent,
randomly select one Resource Card from their hand (without
looking), and place it face up in their discard pile.
enemy ship in the Group has fired the remaining ships can pick
new targets and do not get the +1. If the Group selected has not
fired yet and it survives it must fire at the enemy Group that it
blocked for this round. It will also gain a +1. If it destroys the
enemy Group, it can switch remaining shots to new targets and
doesn’t get the +1.
90. Alien Reinforcements Value: 2
Effect: Play at the start of your turn, the start of an Economic
Phase or the start of combat before ships are revealed. Select
one un-colonized Deep Space planet that has at least one NPA
ship and randomly add 3 NPA ships to it (18.0). If you are not
playing with NPAs then this card cannot be played for its effect.
If the Replicators are in combat with the NPAs, these added ships
may make it possible for them to mark off having encountered
a Fleet Size of 5 or greater on their Production Sheet.
91-92. Deep Cover Operative Value: 4
Effect: Play at the start of your turn or the start of an Economic
Phase. Choose an opponent. You may look through that player’s
face up Resource Cards (excluding Missions), pick one card,
and add it to your hand. Removing the card from a player’s face
up Resource Cards does not change any of the effects that the
card has already generated.
93. Amazing Diplomats Value: 4
Effect: Play when one of your ships enters a Deep Space
planet’s hex for the first time. The NPAs in this hex will treat
you as if your Empire Advantage is Amazing Diplomats for the
rest of the game. If your Empire Advantage Card is Amazing
Diplomats, then the first time one of your ships goes to that
hex place a Colony 5 marker on the planet. Once a player has
used either version of Amazing Diplomats to affect a planet,
no other player may use either effect on that planet for the rest
of the game.
94-95. Forced System Shutdown Value: 4/2
Effect: Play during combat, after fleets are revealed but before
the first round starts. Select one enemy unit. For the first three
battle rounds, treat this unit as not having any Attack, Defense,
and Tactics upgrades. If the enemy does not have a spare
Group counter, then they have the choice of either destroying
the effected ship or having this card effect the entire Group. If
played against Replicators, the ship gets –2 to its attack (min of
1) and defense (min of 0), Tactics is not affected.
96-97. Smuggler’s Route Value: 2
Effect: Can be played in one of two ways.
• At the start of your player turn or the start of an Economic
Phase select any unrevealed System marker. Remove the
marker from the board.
Resource Cards
Space Empires: All Good Things - Card Manifest & Deep Space Planet Attributes 21
© 2024 GMT Games, LLC
106. Coup Value: 4/2
Effect: Play on a player after a battle where they lost 6+ Hull
Points of combat-capable units. In the next Econ Phase, their
Homeworld produces half the usual income (round down).
The Hull Points must be lost in combat where dice are rolled
to take out the ships.
• Ships lost to Doomsday Machines or Space Amoebas DO count.
• Bases, Starbases, DSN, and Shipyards DO count.
• Ships that are captured DO count.
• Ships lost to Mines DO NOT count.
• Mines DO NOT count.
• Ground Units DO NOT count.
• Missiles DO NOT count.
For the purpose of counting Hull Points for this card, ignore all
special rules, Empire Advantages, and Alien Tech Cards. Count
the Hull Points as shown on the counter. In the case of Unique
Ships (41.0), count the Hull Size that was paid for. There is no
negative effect when played against the Replicators; instead,
the player that destroyed the Hull Points has their Homeworld
produce 50% greater income (round down) in the next Economic
Phase. (Representing a surge in loyalty and hope from getting
an important victory.)
107. Retreat When Engaged Value: 3
Effect: Play during a battle before ships are revealed. ALL
of your mobile units MUST retreat. This includes Decoys,
Mines, Titans, Miners, Colony Ships, Pipelines and your Bases/
Shipyards if they can move. If you have a Colony in that space,
you may leave as many Fighters or Ground Units as you wish
at the Colony.
108. Collateral Damage Value: 2
Effect: Play when a combat-capable unit of either side is
destroyed in space combat at a planet. Drop the growth level of
the planet by one level. This cannot cause the Colony to drop
below the Colony marker’s lowest value, e.g., 0, Start, or 5 (for
Homeworlds).
109. Minerals +5/–3 Value: 2
Effect: Play at the start of an Economic Phase. Designate one
Mineral on a planet or a Miner in a Nebula harvesting resources
(34.0) during the Economic Phase. That Mineral/Miner will
be worth 5 more or 3 less than normal (your choice – you can
either increase your own/teammates’ income or decrease your
opponents’). If played on Replicators, play this card when the
Replicator Player picks up the Mineral.
150. Where No Man Has Gone Before (Mission) Value: 2
Effect: This card may only be played during your turn. This
card may be played face up in front of a player while there
are still unexplored Deep Space System markers. Every
player’s ship with Exploration tech may explore twice each
turn. Once every Deep Space System marker is revealed,
(only) the player who played this card gets to roll on the
Mission Benefit Table.
151. Time Travel Slingshot (Mission) Value: 2
Effect: Play when one of your CAs performs a Black Hole
Slingshot in Deep Space without being destroyed. Leave
this card face up. Discard it to reveal all enemy groups/
counters in one hex that could be moved into by at least
one of your combat-capable ships.
152. Journey to Babel (Mission) Value: 2
Effect: Play when one of your CAs moves by itself into the
same hex as an unconquered Deep Space NPA Planet; it
has picked up a diplomatic delegation. Instead of a normal
battle, one random NPA ship from the planet attacks the
CA, which may not retreat. The NPA ship is on a suicide
mission and gets +1 attack and defense. Regardless of the
outcome, the NPA ship is eliminated. Any other NPA ships
at that planet will not attack the CA. The CA must leave
the hex next turn. If the CA defeats the ship and reaches
its Homeworld, in the following Economic Phase the NPA
Planet (if still unconquered) becomes allies to that player
as if they had the Empire Advantage Amazing Diplomats.
Place a 5 CP colony on that planet.
110. Splash Damage Value: 2
Effect: Play when a combat-capable unit is destroyed in space
combat. Deal 1 damage to X other non-screened enemy combatcapable units (including Missiles) in this space battle, where X is
the Hull Size of the destroyed ship. For each ship that is damaged
by this, roll a die. On a 6-10 they ignore the damage. Titans,
Doomsday Machines, Space Amoebas, CVs/BVs protected by
Fighters, and Units protected by Shield Projectors cannot
be selected as targets of the splash damage. Ships destroyed
by Splash Damage do not generate an Experience Roll (37.0).
Resource Cards
22 Space Empires: All Good Things - Card Manifest & Deep Space Planet Attributes
© 2024 GMT Games, LLC
157. Easy Planet Survey (Mission) Value: 2
Effect: Play during your turn. Select any planet without
a colony or Non-Player Aliens and mark it with the Easy
Survey counter. It cannot be colonized unless 2 SCs are in
the same hex as the planet at the time the Colony Ship lands.
When colonized, this planet will grow 2 steps (instead of 1)
during the next Economic Phase, then remove the counter.
158. Scientific Survey (Mission) Value: 2
Effect: Play this card face up when one of your CAs is
adjacent to a Super Nova. Turn the CA face up. If this
CA subsequently moves adjacent to 2 other Super Novas,
discard this card and roll on the Mission Benefit Table. If
the player turns the CA face down at a Colony or if it is
destroyed, discard this card.
159. Stellar Anomaly Investigation (Mission) Value: 2
Effect: Play this card face up when you have 2 of your
combat ships of different types in the same Deep Space
hex containing at least one Nebula marker. Turn those ships
face up. At the end of each turn (including this one), roll
the die. On a roll of 1-3, discard this card and roll on the
Mission Benefit Table. If one or both ships leave the hex
discard this card for no effect.
160. Distress Call (Mission) Value: 2
Effect: Play when a ship you control is eliminated in battle.
Instead of being destroyed, it is placed in a hex adjacent
to the battle that is farther from your Homeworld than the
battle hex (your choice). The chosen hex must contain one
or more unexplored system markers if possible. When this
hex is explored, remove and ignore the system markers.
The player cannot move this ship until the turn after another
of their ships ends their turn in the hex, but the ship may
defend itself normally. This card may be played on a ship
that had the Play Dead Resource Card played on it if you
lose the battle and that ship is going to be destroyed.
153. Balance of Terror (Mission) Value: 2
Effect: Play during your turn. Select one other player. The
two players each select one of their ships (a Group may be
split to facilitate this) located in Deep Space, regardless of
each ship’s location in relation to one another. If a player
has no ships in Deep Space, that player may choose any
one of their ships. If the ship can carry fighters and has
fighters in the same hex, up to the amount of fighters the
ship may carry are chosen too. These two chosen units then
have an immediate battle to the death in open space with no
possibility of retreat. The winner of this battle may attack
a hex with a colony belonging to a player involved in the
battle of his choice (not a Homeworld) with the chosen units
regardless of location. After the attack and any possible
bombardment, the units are returned to their previous hex
if they survive. The Temporal Engine Benefit Temporal
Maneuver may not be used during this Mission.
154. Creature from Below (Mission) Value: 2
Effect: Play during your turn. Select a non-Homeworld
Colony in a Home System, friendly or enemy, and place the
Creature token (A5-2-x4, 3 attacks each round) on it. This
Creature does no damage to the planet, but the Colony is
treated as if it is blockaded until the Creature is defeated in
ground combat (Militia do not participate). Troops on the
same planet must attack the Creature during their owner’s
next combat phase. If the Creature defeats the Troops, all
damage to it is healed and the Colony is still considered
blockaded. When it is defeated, that player gets a one-time
bonus of 15 CP.
155. Arena (Mission) Value: 2
Effect: Play at the start of a battle involving exactly one
ship of each side. An advanced entity stops the battle and
decides it is more civilized to have the captains of each ship
fight to the death (how that is actually more advanced or
civilized is unclear). Regardless of the ships involved, the
player that played the card wins the battle on a roll of 1-6,
their opponent on a roll of 7-10. The ship on the losing
side is destroyed.
156. Difficult Planet Survey (Mission) Value: 2
Effect: Play during your turn. Select any planet without
a Colony or NPAs and mark it with the Difficult Survey
counter. This planet is difficult to settle. Every time at least
one CA or Flagship ends its turn in the planet’s hex, roll a
die. On a roll of a 1-2, the marker is taken by the owner of
the ships, and the planet may be colonized. If the colony
is placed by the player with the counter they draw 1 Alien
Tech card and keep it. This is in addition to any other Alien
Tech Cards drawn for colonizing the planet.
Resource Cards
Space Empires: All Good Things - Card Manifest & Deep Space Planet Attributes 23
© 2024 GMT Games, LLC
161. Quell Riots (Mission) Value: 2
Effect: Play during your turn. Select a non-Homeworld
Colony in a Home System, friendly or enemy, and mark it
with the Riot counter. While the counter is at the Colony
it is considered blockaded. If at least 4 Hull Points worth
of combat-capable units except Shipyards, any Bases, and
Defense Satellite Networks belonging to the Colony’s
owner end their move at that Colony that player rolls a
die (reveal all combat-capable units involved to prove it):
• 1-5 – Remove Riot counter and roll twice on the
Mission Benefit Table. The counter remains until this
result is rolled.
• 6-8 – No effect.
• 9-10 – Reduce Colony one step. This can reduce
the Colony to start, but never destroy it.
If less than 4 Hull Points worth of ships are at the Colony
during an Economic Phase, roll the die but there is only
an effect on 9-10 as per above. This counts any modifiers
to hull size, e.g. Giant Race and Insectoids.
162. Police State (Mission) Value: 2
Effect: Play during your turn. Select a Deep Space Colony,
friendly or enemy, and mark it with the Police State counter.
Very valuable resources have been discovered on this
planet, but the indigenous population does not want to
make them available. The Colony is considered blockaded
unless the owner has at least 4 Space Marines and/or
Heavy Infantry and 6 Hull Points of combat-capable units
(including any Bases, Shipyards, DSN) revealed in that hex
(This counts any modifiers to hull size, e.g. Giant Race and
Insectoids). If they do, the Colony produces 10 additional
CP that Economic Phase. If playing with Facilities (36.0),
the additional income is always CP regardless of the
Facility present. As soon as less than required units are
present the colony is considered blockaded again.
163. New FTL Test (Mission) Value: 2
Effect: Play during your turn. Reveal a ship with at least
2 Hull Points in Deep Space in a hex with no other ships.
It must have the highest level of Movement Technology
that you have researched. The Technology Level does not
need to be revealed. Roll a die one time:
• 1-7 – The test is a success! The next Movement technology
purchased is discounted by 15 CP.
• 8-9 – The test fails.
• 10 – Calamity! The test ship is destroyed.
164. Dimensional Anomaly (Mission) Value: 2
Effect: Play during your Exploration Phase when a CA is
your only ship (not Group) in a hex that had a system marker
explored by that CA this phase (after resolving any system
marker effects, including combat against NPAs) The CA is
then shifted to another dimension and is removed from the
board. At the beginning of each Economic Phase, roll a die.
On 1-3, the CA is placed back on the board at a friendly Base
or Shipyard. Subtract 2 from the die roll for each successive
Econ Phase (e.g., in the third Econ Phase it would be -4 to
the roll). The CA does not pay maintenance while off board.
Roll on Mission Benefit Table when it returns to the board.
The System marker may have been previously peeked at
(but not flipped), using Exploration technology.
165. Asteroid Strike (Mission) Value: 2
Effect: Play during your turn. Place the Rogue Asteroid
counter in an Asteroid hex and place the Asteroid Target
counter in the same hex as an enemy non - Homeworld
Colony at least two hexes away. Each Economic Phase
the Rogue Asteroid moves one hex closer to the Colony
(your choice if two hexes are equidistant). If it enters the
same hex as the Colony, remove both the Colony and the
Rogue Asteroid. If any player ends the movement phase in
the same hex as the Rogue Asteroid with ships that have a
combined Attack Strength of 3 or more (not counting attack
technology), the player may remove the Rogue Asteroid
counter (being in a hex when the Rogue Asteroid moves
into the hex is not sufficient). Boarding Ships count as
having an Attack Strength of 1 for this, Missile Boats count
as having an Attack Strength of 6. If the units in the hex
do not have a combined total of at least 3 Attack Strength,
nothing happens.
166. Urgent Deep Space Survey (Mission) Value: 2
Effect: Play when one of your ships that is worth 12+ CP
ends its turn in one of the following types of terrain in
Deep Space – Nebula, Asteroids, Black Hole, Warp Point,
Plasma Storm, Ion Storm, Quantum Filament, Quasar, or
Pulsar. The ship must then subsequently end its turn in 3
more of the listed terrain types (it must be different hexes,
but not necessarily different terrain types) and then get
back to one of your Colonies that has a Shipyard, Base, or
Starbase. If successful, roll on the Mission Benefit Table.
The ship performing this Mission must be revealed when
the card is played. You may use your Flagship to complete
this mission. If the designated ship is destroyed or the ship
is flipped face down, discard this card.
Resource Cards
24 Space Empires: All Good Things - Card Manifest & Deep Space Planet Attributes
© 2024 GMT Games, LLC
167. Survivors (Mission) Value: 2
Effect: Play during your turn. A shuttle containing one of
your enemy’s people (choose an opponent at random) has
crash-landed on a revealed but uncolonized NPA planet
(choose randomly). Mark the planet with a counter from
that Empire. If you colonize the planet while it has the
counter you capture the survivors and ransom them back for
10 CP (gained by you as if it was mineral income and lost
by that enemy during the next Economic Phase) and get to
look at the technology portion of that Empire’s Production
Sheet (immediately) and the counter is removed. If another
player colonizes this planet, the counter is removed without
any effect.
168. Sins of the Father (Mission) Value: 2
Effect: Play during your turn. Select one of your ships
of Hull Size 2 or greater in a Deep Space hex. A crew
member from that ship must resolve a familial dispute on
your Homeworld. If this ship begins and ends a turn at the
Homeworld, draw a Crew Card (12.0). Do this even if not
playing with Crew Cards. The Crew Card must be played
as normal during the next Economic Phase or is discarded.
169. Defend an Outpost (Mission) Value: 2
Effect: Play at the end of your turn. Choose one of your
own non-Homeworld Deep Space Colonies. The opponent
of your choice MUST immediately attack it with between
2 and 10 of their Ground Units (if possible). These Ground
Units can be taken from anywhere on the board, including
Transports, and are instantly placed on the planet and may
fire normally during the first round (unlike normal rules,
21.8.3). The defender does not get Militia. There is no space
battle, but all units in the hex are revealed. If the attacker
wins, they may decide to capture this Colony by removing
one surviving Ground Unit as normal. If the defender (the
person that played the card) defeats the attack, they roll on
the Mission Benefit Table. If the player chosen does not
have at least 2 Ground Units, no attack takes place, and the
defender gets to roll on the Mission Benefit Table. Neither
player involved can be Replicator.
170. Defending Familiar Terrain (Duplicate - See Card 76)
171. Minerals +5/–3 (Duplicate – See Card 109)
172. Privateers Value: 3
Effect: Can be played for one of two effects:
• Play when peeking at a Space Pirate using Exploration
Technology or Regional Map to hire that Space Pirate as if
the counter was revealed during the Exploration Phase. In
the case of using Exploration technology, the Space Pirate
is hired before movement and may therefore be moved
under the player’s control that turn.
• Play when revealing a Space Pirate during the Exploration
Phase while already in control of a Space Pirate to ignore
the restriction and hire the newly revealed Space Pirate
as normal.
173. Hidden Power (Duplicate - See Card 104)
174-175. Virus Value: 2
Effect: Play during your turn. Select any non-Homeworld
Colony. Place a Virus counter on it. In the next Economic
Phase, that Colony is treated as if it is blockaded. Remove
the counter at the end of that Economic Phase.
176-178. Sabotage Value: 2
Effect: Play at the beginning of your first turn after an
Economic Phase. A player of your choice must destroy
one Defense Satellite Network or any type of Base of their
own choice. Replicators must destroy one ship not in their
Home System. If the player does not have one of those,
then this card is discarded for no effect.
179. Population +/- Value: 2
Effect: Play during an Economic Phase after adjusting
Colony income. Choose one non-Homeworld Colony.
That Colony either grows an extra level or goes down one
level. This cannot cause a Colony to be eliminated but can
reduce it to 0.
Resource Cards